Back in our console here,
if we go down in this Menu bar,
we see that it says NAT gateways. Let's see.
We see two in a status pending,
probably the ones that we just trigger right now so let's see the creation process.
It might take awhile. You see they have IP addresses that are private,
but we don't want that.
We need the public facing IP addresses as well.
So we have to wait a little bit for this resources to be created.
Depending on the complexity of the resource,
it'll starts to take more and more time.
Let's go back to CloudFormation, update in progress.
We'll click our infrastructure and this is what it looks like.
It's confirming that is creating our NAT gateways and that is the workflow.
What we do is we continue to create
resources little by little until we have our entire picture.
So going back to here,
the next topic of conversation is once this is complete, it's going to be routing.
This is probably a very critical portion.
We're going to create route tables and once we have those route tables,
we're going to create rules to allow traffic to flow in and out of
our public subnets and we're also going to have rules for
the traffic to flow outbound only from my private subnets.
We have no interest in capturing inbound Internet traffic
from the Internet gateway into our private subnets.
In fact, the private subnets,
they're not even going to go outside directly.
They're going to go just and hit the NAT gateways that we're creating,
and that's the only way that they can reach the outside.
Now, our stock has reached the status update complete. Let's take a look.
We have confirmation that now we have our NAT gateways created.
That's perfect. Before we go back,
let's take a look. Make sure they're there.
Go back to VPC, scroll down to NAT gateway,
click on that and sure enough now they
have elastic IPs and they're created and they're functional.
Now, we need to find a way to test them but before we do,
of course, we need to create routing for them.
Now the question would be,
if I created a VPC,
it's understood that there has to be
some routing and the answer is yes, you would be correct.
There is routing provided to all VPCs just as soon as you create them.
However, the default routing does not account for you
creating subnets that are going to be used for whatever purpose.
For example, a public one is different than a private one
and the default routing rules provided are not going to consider that.
If you need to know the default rules for routing in a VPC,
they are to allow traffic within the VPC.
Any resource will be able to talk to each other and that's okay
because everything that you have in your public subnets or your private subnets,
those are still your servers on services.
So yes, it's okay for them to be able to talk to one another.
But the tricky part is when you want to talk to the outside world,
which is where your data may be exposed to a security risk.
That's why we need these routing rules that we're going to get to right now.